
The DMAIC methodology is a problem-solving approach used in Lean Six Sigma projects to improve processes and eliminate defects. DMAIC stands for Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, and Control.

## Define

The Define phase is the first stage of the DMAIC methodology. During this stage, the project team defines the problem, identifies the project goals, and develops a project charter. The following tools and techniques are commonly used during the Define phase:

-   Project charter: A document that defines the scope of the project, the project goals, and the resources required.
-   Stakeholder analysis: Identifying the key stakeholders and their requirements.
-   Voice of the customer (VOC): Capturing the customer's needs and requirements.

1. Project Charter
2. Project Plan
3. Stakeholder Analysis
4. Communication Plan
5. SIPOC Mapping
6. Voice of the Customer
	1. Who is the customer?
	2. Interviews
	3. Point of use observation
	4. Focus Group
	5. Survey
	6. Kano Analysis
	7. **Critical Quality Tree**
		1. Overview
			1. **When**: Define Phase
			2. **Purpose**: To move from the "vague state" comments of your customer about what they expect from your service/product to actual specifics which can be measured against
			3. **Outcome**: Strengthen ability to meet customer expectations and, where possible, exceed them
			4. **Data**: Start with customer data (see above). THen want to use this data and the data from any contract obligations or agreements you have made to establish the CTQs'
		2. **How**
			1. Gather all data.
			2. Identify relevant statements that have been made about the product/service to be investigated. Positive, negative, and neutral.
			3. Ask what the key drivers to ensure that this does or does not happen again? Try to identify at a minimum of 3.
			4. Establish how to ensure you meet these expectations through the CTQ's. Quanitfy what quality looks like to the customer. These become you critical quality measurements.
			5. Measure performance against these metrics
			6. NOTE: Good customer requirements should be specific, easlity measured, related directly to a product or service and describe what the need is, not how this need will be met.
7. TOLLGATE
	1. Check that all of the above have been completed
	2. All documentation is updated

## Measure

The Measure phase is the second stage of the DMAIC methodology. During this stage, the project team collects data to understand the current state of the process and establish a baseline. The following tools and techniques are commonly used during the Measure phase:

-   Process mapping: Mapping the process flow to identify waste and inefficiencies.
-   Data collection plan: Defining what data will be collected and how it will be collected.
-   Statistical process control (SPC): Using statistical tools to monitor and control the process.

1. Map out the process
	1. Think of the process in more detail than the SIPOC
	2. What is happening with the key indicators
	3. Build Flowchart Process map
		1. Identify different people present in the process
		2. Work with a SME of the process and walk through the process
		3. Place each step in the correct swim lane
		4. Ensure that conventional process mapping icons
		5. Discuss flow with the team. Has everything been covered? Have we stayed in scope?
		6. With this map, you can now start to identify any issues in the flow.
2. Data Collection Plan
	1. Outside the project and comm plan, crucial third part 
	2. Knowing what data you need and how to get it
	3. Completing a Data Collection Plan
		1. What data
		2. Where the data is collected from
		3. How the data will be collected
		4. When the data will be collected
		5. Who is going to collect the data
		6. Type of data: continuous or discrete
			1. Continuous: Any value
			2. Discrete: can only collect certain values, there is a cap
3. Data Collection
	1. Aim to ensure all is collected during Measure Phase, and relatively quickly before you move too far into the stage.
	2. This section is also about what you do with that data once you have it. A key thing to think about is how to present your finding once you have them
	3. Not just collecting, but what is that data telling us. This is where we validate the Define phase - Is there a problem?
	4. Advised to graphically represent each of the datasets to show the problem that is effective
4. Identify the key Y's
	1. Remember Y=f(x)
		1. Y = outputs
		2. x = inputs
		3. f = process
	2. You need to be clear on your Y's to ensure you can also be clear on you f(x). If you identify the wrong outputs, you will be searching for the wrong fixes in the wrong place
5. MSA
	1. Measurement System Analysis = made up of a series of tools to determine the amount of variation contributed by the measurement system
	2. Gage R&R: One tool that does this, "Gage Repeatability and reproducibility"
		1. Method to assess how repeatable and reproducible the system you used to get your data is
		2. Carried out to discover how much variation in the data you have is because of the measurement system vice the process
		3. We want to understand how much variation there is in both R&R. Validate there is a problem with the process, and not the way the data was collected.
		4. Repeatability
			1. Study to see how much variation there is between measurements of the same part and the characteristic by the same person using the same method. 
		5. Reproducibility
			1. Study is to see the difference in the average of the measurements made by different people using the same method, looking at the same thing.
		6. Process
			1. 3 people, pull data from the same location, in the same way, at the same time.
				1. "We want X months of data from X system during X time period"
				2. IF data matches, PASS Gage R&R test. <= 10% of data error
				3. IF data error >10% < 30% of data error, assess data collection process to identify any issues. Make adjustments, retest till good
				4. IF data NOT match, FAIL Gage R&R. 
					1. >30% automatic failure
					2. Access the measure step for errors in data collection and analysis
6. Check Progress stability and capability
		1. Stability
			1.  LSS projects can be launches with the aim of improving the stability of a process. Building consistency of outputs and quality. 
			2. Stable process is one which produces pridcable results consistently. If you process is delivery you results which are unexpected and odd, this is not a stable process
			3. Referred to as Variation
				1. Two Types: Common and special
					1. Common: happen on a regular basis and are out of our control.
					2. Special: Rare, unexpected, and happen all of the sudden
			4. Complex task. Involves statistical analysis and a lot of data input. You want to aim to have your process data sitting as close tot he mean of the process as possible. A tight dataset around the mean indicates a very stable process.
				1. Important that data is time bound, has integrity and that there is enough of it.
		2. Capability
			1. Process capability is all about measuring the ability of your process to meet certain specifications
			2. You would do this to understand of your process is delivery the output expected by the customer.
			3. Key to this is applying KPI's and SLA's to your process. We can also call these Upper Specification Limit (USL) [Objective] and Lower Specification Limit (LSL) [Threshold]
				1. i.e LSL = 0% errors/month; USL = 3% errors/month
			4. 
7. TOLLGATE
	1. Check that all of the above have been completed
	2. All documentation is updated

## Analyze

The Analyze phase is the third stage of the DMAIC methodology. During this stage, the project team analyzes the data collected in the Measure phase to identify the root cause of the problem. The following tools and techniques are commonly used during the Analyze phase:

-   Root cause analysis: Identifying the underlying causes of the problem.
-   Fishbone diagram: A tool used to identify the potential causes of a problem.
-   Failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA): A tool used to identify potential failures and their effects on the process

1. Establish process Sigma
2. **Root Cause Analysis**
	1. Understand what is causing our problem
	2. We need to investigate our Y's fuerther by conducting a seriues of RCA exercises into each one of them, to understand why they are occuring in the first place
	3. Helps us establish our X's as part of the next stage.
	4. Two main tools
		1. **Fishbone Diagram**
			1. **Cause** and Effect or "Ishikawa Diagram"
			2. **When**: Cause-prevention perspective
			3. **Purpose**: Helps the team to see root cause through the symtoms, provides a good structure to the effort of root cuase analysis and ensures you get a balanced list of ideas generated through brainstorming
			4. **Preferred Outcome**: A list of potential causes, categorized.
			5. **Data**: Ideas generated by yourself or the team involved in the brainstorming session. Some of these ideas may be based on data that is showing you where the problem may lie.
			6. **How** to use: 
				1. Define the problem exactly and write this in the head of the diagram
				2. Decide on potential major categories that could be causing issues. Common categories are:
					1. Measurements
					2. Materials
					3. Method
					4. Environment
					5. People
					6. Machine
				3. As a team, work through each category, brainstorming all the potential causes that could fall under each one. NO IDEA IS UNWORTHY, all are included. Alternative is to do this silently and then bring together.
				4. Once ideas are there, review to ensure the diagram is complete. If any categories have a lot less ideas that others, see if this can be expanded out further. Once you have a full picture, you can eliminate any of those causes you and the group know do not apply
				5. Discuss with the team those causes they think are the most viable and have the biggest impact on your symptom. These are the causes you need to take away to investigate further.
				6. Now plan how you are going to verify that these causes are the ACTUAL causes. This will require utilizing data and statistical analysis
		2. **5 Y's**
			1. **When**: During Analyze
			2. **Purpose**: To get down to the absolute final cause so an action can be identified. This method forces people to think about the root cause as it consistently asks "why". With this tool we want to explore on the causes further as opposed to the symptom. If can follow an Ishikawa Diagram
			3. **Outcome**: Actionable item you can work on to fix the problem.
			4. **Data**: Ideas generated by the team either through brainstorming session or Ishikawa Diagram.
			5. **How**:
				1. Select any problem you are currenting seeing occurring. You need to ensure everyone is aware of the cause and what it actually means
				2. Ask the team, Why does this occur? Why does this thing happen in the first place?
				3. Then ask why the next problem occurs, and then the next problem, and so on.
				4. Continue asking why until you can see there is no further to go in identifying causes.
				5. When you have reached your identified root cause, identify the actions you need to take to fix this. These actions can be either short or long term, depending on the the scale of the issue.
3. Identify key Xs
	1. once you have completed you RCA, you can identify your key X's
	2. As you will see from the exercise, a number of potential X's will come out of that, but not all will be eligible, relevant and within your ability to make changes.
	3. You need to revisit the RCA and with the team identify which root causes are:
		1. The most feasible
		2. Have the biggest impact
		3. Are within your remit to address
	4. To do this, you could vote, hold an open discussion or simply agree right away which fit this criteria
	5. In terms of numbers, this depends on the impact. It could be that two issues cause the vast majority of your errors and therefore you need only focus on fixing these.
	6. Equally, you could identify 10 in need of working on. Recommend not going more than 10 as it could cause the project to spiral.
4. **Control Impact Matrix**
	1. Once you have identified the key X's, or as part of doing this, you need to think about those items which sit within your control and those which do not.
	2. There may be many causes to the problems you and your team face, but it may not necessarily be the case that you control all of these. They may sit within your department, they may sit externally
	3. Equally, you also need to think about the impact these causes are having on your process.
	4. The aim here is to identify those things which are high impacting and within your control
	5. Those that are low impacting are often put off to another day, unless they are really quick wins
	6. Those items which are high impacting but not within your control will require further attention. It may be the case that you need to approach the owner of that cause for assistance or get their buy in. Equally, it may be the case that it is external and out of your control that the best thing to do is mitigate the cause as opposed to fixing it.
	7. **HOW**
		1. Build a grid. The grid should be labelled "high impact", "medium impact" and "low impact" across the top and "in control" and "out of control" along the site.
		2. Add in the identified X's from the RCA. Use data and team feedback to identify which ones are truly have the biggest impact on your Y's
		3. Finalize you key X's. Once all are on the grid, you should aim to focus on those which are the high and medium impact within your control. For the rest, move these off as "recommendations" to be submitted at a later date. If there are any high impact items out of your control but which really need attention, you could seek to reach out to those who have this control to build consensus around addressing this.
5. Analyze the process
	1. Now it is time to review the process map
	2. At this stage, we need to analyze our process for a number of things:
		1. Waste. Where can we identify waste within our process?
		2. VA vs NVA. Where can we identify those steps within our process adding value and those not?
		3. Causes of error. If possible, it would be good to identify where our errors are emerging from (sometimes this is not possible as the error could occur in another process and our process is downstream from that one)
		4. Rework loops. Are there any occasions where we have to repeat work again and again?
	3. We need to remember that this is a LEAN Six Sigma project, and as well as fixing what is broken, we also want to secure some Lean benefits, such as waste reduction. To do this:
		1. Work through your flowchart map. Talk about each step, its purpose and value with the team.
		2. RAG color the steps depending on whether or not they add value (green), do not add value (red) or are necessary non-value add step (amber).
		3. Pull all red steps out of the process and put them separate from the main process. These process is now ready for the gap analysis, which comes next.
6. **Gap Analysis**
	1. Now that we have analyzed our process and split out the value add steps we want to keep and non-value add steps we want to remove, we need to conduct a gap analysis.
	2. A gap analysis is where we identify how we fill the gap. How do we go from our current process to our ideals process? Can the process operate as expected if we remove all identified wasteful steps?
	3. Process
		1. Work with your process experts. Analyze the process and the steps to be removed.
		2. Discuss each step. Previously you removed each step as you identifying your ideal approach - not you can reflect on this, can these steps really be removed? Check each one.
		3. Rejig your process map. With the analysis of each step underway or complete, move the map around to ensure a flow can still be guaranteed with this approach.
		4. Amend if needed. If you see the flow is now broken, add back in some of the previous steps or brainstorm how best you can handle that break. Does it need a fresh approach?
		5. Walk the new process. At this stage, you should have identified what the final process can actually look like once you take everything into consideration (still more to do)
	4. With the gap analysis complete, you can now move on to perfect your process
7. TOLLGATE
	1. Check that all of the above have been completed
	2. All documentation is updated

## Improve

The Improve phase is the fourth stage of the DMAIC methodology. During this stage, the project team develops and implements solutions to address the root cause of the problem. The following tools and techniques are commonly used during the Improve phase:

-   Brainstorming: Generating ideas for solutions.
-   Pilot testing: Testing the solutions on a small scale before implementing them on a larger scale.
-   Lean tools: Using Lean tools, such as 5S or value stream mapping, to improve the process.

1. Develop potential solutions
	1. Hold a workshop with your project team and the process owners to start to brainstorm potential solutions to your identified key X's
	2. At this stage where you need to start to solidify your projects response to the issues that have been plaguing your process. To do this:
		1. Construct an Affinity Diagram
		2. Vote for and discuss the best options
	3. Brainstorm session and affinity diagram session are essentially the same thing. The affinity diagram is created by writing all of the ideas down to explore and discuss later.
	4. To generate solutions, get everyone together and do the following:
		1. Review the problem we are looking at to being with. Clearly define the X's we are trying to solution for.
		2. Clarify to everyone what the goal of the session is and provide any relevant information or data to aid in the brainstorming session.
		3. Give everyone 5-10 minutes of silent at the start to think through for themselves as many ideas and possible solutions as they can. 
		4. Have them write these down on a bit of paper or, ideal, a post-it not. (make sure to encourage all ideas - no idea is too stupid or not worthy)
		5. Now you can gather ideas. Go around and group and capture the ideas one by one. Have each member say why they chose that particular point and add it to the idea captures board (wall, flip chart, whiteboard, etc.)
		6. Try and not allow any in depth discussion of the ideas to happen until all ideas are on the wall
		7. Now that you have these answers, allow people to write more down if the ones they have seen have sparked new ideas in their mind. Keep this process up until all possible ideas are on the wall.
		8. Move the ideas around if needed, and sort into particular groups depending on your need.
2. Solution Selection
	1. Once you have completed your solution brainstorming session, you then have to work out with the team what the best solutions to deploy are.
	2. You want to think carefully about your solution selection, and try and address the following:
		1. Does this solution deliver on our stated projects goals?
		2. Is this solution within our remite to deploy?
		3. Is there an up front cost to this solution which would require buy in?
		4. How long would this solution take to deploy?
		5. How long would it be before the benefits of this solution are realised?
	3. In approaching solution selection, this can be done in a number of ways:
		1. Discuss, as a group, which options are the best. In this instance, you go with your and your groups intuition
		2. You answer the above questions and rank the potential solutions from those that satisfy them the most to those that satisfy them the least.
		3. You could go to a vote, and see which options come out with the most votes, asking people to consider the above questions when making their decision. This is known as multivoting
	4. **Solution Selection Matrix**
		1. **Use**: Used during the improve phase
		2. **Purpose**: A grid like structure, this tool provides a method of assessing the postive impact of each proposed solution to reach the stated goal, the effort and cost
		3. **Outcome**: Identification of those potential solutions that should become the chosen solutions, based on a range of criteria to ensure they are indeed the best option
		4. **Data**: All ideas generated from previous brainstorming/Affinityu Diagram sessions
		5. **How**:
			1. Pull together a grid on a board wall for everyone in the team to see
			2. Add the 5 critiera you are going to be measuring your potential solutions against: 
				1. Potential to meet goal
				2. Positive customer impact
				3. Cost to Implement
				4. Stakeholder buy in
				5. Time to implement
			3. Add a RAG rating system to the grid showing 1-5
				1. 1 = no or negative
				2. 3 = neutral
				3. 5 = positive or yes
			4. Work through each solution, rating them against the 5 criteria. Discuss each as a group and try to come to an agreement each time. 
			5. Then the gris is complete, rank the solutions based on total score, This higher the score, the more likely it is that this should be implemented.
			6. You, the team and management should decide how many of the potential solutions should be implemented.
			7. Once you have decided on these points, take the highest rated solutions away to be deployed and save the other potential solutions for another day.
	5. **Multivoting**
		1. **Use**: Can be used throughout. It can be used with a wide variety of ideas, solutions or proposals at any stage
		2. **Purpose**: relatively quick technique that can be used to identify priorities in a project or narrow down the options from the list
		3. **Outcome**: Identification of which item should be prioritized, whether it is the issue that needs fixing, the customer that needs focusing on or the solution that needs delivering.
		4. **Data** all ideas generated from previous brainstorming / affinity 
		5. **How**: 
			1. Write each solution somewhere you can see. This will be the starting point of the multivoting tool - it should be in a grid like format. DONT OVERCOMPLICATE.
			2. Decide how many votes each individual will have. Generally we like to keep the number of votes to around 1/3 of the number of items available. 
			3. Now get the team members to cast their votes. They can do this by going up to their chosen options and marking them or they can do them confidentially and someone writes them all down at the end.
			4. Tally up the votes against each item to see which are the top selection team members want to focus on. Decide on the course of action to be taken. Now you know which items have won, explore these further with discussion and identify how the team would like to proceed to implementing the ideas
3. Pilot Test
	1. Once you have identified your chosen solutions, it is really important that you then test these before deploying them in full.
	2. A pilot is a situation where you test or trial your proposed solution on a limited scale
	3. Reason
		1. To ensure your chosen solution is actually the right solution
		2. To ensure your chosen solution will work upon delivery
		3. To enable you to identify improvements to the solution before delivery
		4. To increase the buy in from stakeholders
	4. To run you pilot test, you need to:
		1. Identify the solution that you need deploying and add them to your pilot test grid. 
		2. Discuss with the team what the best approach would be to pilot each one
		3. You need to think about how you are going to pilot each solution, the scope of this pilot, for how long the testing will take place and who is going to own the pilot
		4. To ensure your project does not drag on, you want to try and pilot all of your solutions either in tandem, or within a week or so of each other.
		5. Have someone record the results and outcome of each pilot at each timeframe relevant to the project i.e. daily, weekly, etc.
4. Implementation Plan
	1. Once you have piloty tested your chosen solution and have identified your response to the pilots, you need to work out a plan for how you are going to implement your solutions in full.
	2. This is where your pilot testing helps - you can now simply build on the approach you took with that
	3. The purpose of the implementation plan is to ensure everyone is aware of what is being implemented and when. It is to ensure the timeframes identified are adhered to and the right approach is delivered for each solution. 
	4. To build the implementation plan
		1. List out your chosen solutions on a grid
		2. Identify how you are going to implement this. you need to state clearly the action or course of action that will be taken to do this. Be as detailed as you need to be. 
		3. State the timeframe in which the solution will be implemented. For quick wins this may be a day, for others it may be a few weeks depending on the time needed to adjust to the change. 
		4. Identify who is going to own the implementation. Even if it is not this person personally deploying it, they will be responsible for ensuring it does in fact get deployed as it should. 
		5. If there is a cost involved, state it. This is important from a budgetary control perspective. You will need to ensure a smooth implementation to stop costs from spiraling.
		6. Once done, mark the activity as complete and let all key stakeholders know this has been finished and is LIVE. 
	5. Implementation is only completed when ALL items are marked as finished.
5. Implement solution
	1. Implementing the solutions stage is pretty straightforward. Here you need to deploy exactly what you identified within your implementation plane, ensuring:
		1. You adhere to the start and end deadlines
		2. Each implementation has one owner.
		3. The owner monitors the effects of the change strictly throughout the implementation phase. 
		4. If there are costs, they remain within budget and do not spiral
		5. When the solution is deployed, a communication goes out to alert key stakeholders of this. 
	2. One key thing to think about as you plan and deploy your solution is risk. There is risk everywhere. There is risk in making changes, there is risk in doing nothing. 
	3. It is important at this stage that you monitor that risk. You would have started to think about and discuss risk when building your fishbone diagram and solution matrix with the team - but here is where you need to monitor it.
6. Map new process
	1. Final part is to map the new process, as it has been delivered.
	2. Earlier in the project, we would have mapped out current "as is" process, and what our process would look like if we removed all the waster.
	3. Now we need to map what was realized, after we implemented and potentially changed our chosen solutions.
	4. You can do this one of two ways. Either, take your original "as is" process map and amend this to reflect the new reality, or map it from scratch
	5. Several reasons needed 
		1. To highlight the change that has been delivered
		2. To communicate out to wider stakeholders what the new process looks like
		3. To provide benefits realization
		4. To store the map for future changes if and when they are required. 
	6. We need to use this map to see how the changes we have made have affected our overall process. Did they save us time and money? Did they reduce the risk of issue or error? Have we satisfied project goals?
7. TOLLGATE
	1. Check that all of the above have been completed
	2. All documentation is updated

## Control

The Control (sometimes called Verify) phase is the final stage of the DMAIC methodology. During this stage, the project team establishes controls to ensure that the improvements made during the Improve phase are sustained. The following tools and techniques are commonly used during the Control phase:

-   Control plan: A document that outlines the measures that will be taken to ensure that the improvements are sustained.
-   Statistical process control (SPC): Using statistical tools to monitor the process and ensure that it remains within specification.
-   Standard operating procedures (SOPs): Developing SOPs to ensure that the process is followed consistently.

1. Control Plan
	1. First step in control phase is to plan out how you are going to control your reformed process.
	2. It is important that when you make changes to a process you do not simply just walk away from that process without putting the right controls in place.
	3. Effective control are important to ensure your process remains stable and capable of delivery what is supposed to deliver error free going forward.
	4. Your control plan will detail exactly how you are going to do this, the measure you are going to put into  place and the metrics required to identify if the controls are working or not
	5. To build a control plan
		1. List down all the items you need to control. These will be the changes you have implemented to your process
		2. Identify the control measures required. Here, utilizing your SMEs, you need to think about what measured you can put in place to ensure the problems you faced before do not occur again. You also need to ensure that by adding these measures and make these changes does not cause the new issue/error to occur elsewhere in your process.
		3. Identify the control metric you will use to monitor your measures and process. This should be some form of quantitative figure acting as a KPI.
		4. Give each control an owner. This person will be responsible for tracking the performance of the control, reporting back on this performance and, if the process becomes unstable, instigate to bring it back to stability.
	6. The control plan should be referred to throughout and post the Control Phase to ensure it is being properly adhered to.
2. Control Measures 
	1. In conjunction with building out your control plan, you need to build out your control measures
	2. This could, arguably, be the **most important part** of the whole DMAIC structure. Why?
		1. Getting these measures right means errors seen previously never arise again
		2. It proved to organizational leaders that the project was worth it and delivered what is said.
		3. It starts the job of securing buy in for future projects
		4. It proves tot he team you worked with why the project was needed and that the methodology you jointly developed was effective
	3. When looking to build out your ideas around the measures, think about:
		1. Is the new measure something we can monitor through metrics?
		2. How will you be able to monitor these metrics?
		3. How will we know if the process is becoming unstable or is remaining stable?
		4. Is there an up front or long term cost involved in this measure?
		5. Is this going to involve more work for the owner?
		6. Which measure can we deliver with low effort and high impact?
	4. A further step you can take here is to identify what would be done if the process became unstable? What are the corrective actions that should be taken?
3. Control Charts
	1. A key way to ensure your control measures and processes are being effective and are remaining stable is by building and applying control charts to them
	2. A control chart is used to give process owners the ability to see how the process is behaving over a period of time
	3. They enable use to see the variation in a process. They can be used earlier on in DMAIC projects to measure the stability of our process
	4. If we have a really stable process, the project will NOT be about reducing variation. If we see big variations in our process, we would want to put reduction of this variation at the heart of our project
	5. The characteristics of a control chart include having an UCL and LCL. These limits are placed on the chart to show that your process is stable and in control
	6. If one data point falls out of these limits, it could be an anomaly. If several fall outside of these limits, it would indicate your process is in need of reform and a problem needs fixing. 
	7. When looking to build your control charts, you can either, as a team, establish what you would like your UCL and LCL to be, or use statistical software to work this out for you (more accurate and complex)
	8. When looking for data to utilize to build your chart, ensure you use time based data, as control charts look at data over a period of time.
4. Documentation update
	1. Even though you would have been updating all critical documentation throughout your project, it is important that you make sure during the control phase that all documentation is up to date ahead of project close.
	2. This is because, often, the information will be stored in a project folder and will be unable to receive updates in the future as the project would have been closed, members may have left, etc.
	3. It is important you leave all of the right information to those that will come after this project
	4. The documentation you should ensure is up to date through the at this stage are (live documents):
		1. Project Charter
		2. Project Plan
		3. Process Map
	5. All other documents should be updated as and when needed.
	6. It is important to have everything updated ahead of close so people can understand exactly how you delivered the project, the recommendations that have come out of it and what lessons can be learned.
5. Benefits realization
	1. As we look to close the project, it is really important that we validate what we have done against what we set out to do in the first place.
	2. At this stage, we need to prove the effort was worth the reward, and that by taking the approach we did, we were able to achieve what we set out.
	3. To do this:
		1. Review your project charter goals. Has what you set our in those goals been achieved? This is why quantifying as much as possible with goals is important - we have something to measure against.
		2. Work through the goals. For each goal, state the goal and then state yes or no to "has this goal been realized" and then how it was realized
		3. Quantify your results. You should also state to what extent you have achieved this goal. 
		4. Review the project. Did you stick to your approach? Did you stick to your scope? Did you stick to your timeline? We want to put a POSTIVE spin on benefits realization, so if things did not go so well, do not state them here. They can be picked up in a lessons learned or post project review meeting.
	4. Benefits realization is an important step at getting buy in for future projects. The mission to start selling your next project idea begins when you are running your last.
	5. If you can show that following this method worked wonders for your process, you're already securing that much needed support for your next project.
	6. How to show benefits
		1. Show Project Brief: What started the project, including metrics
		2. State the goal, whether it was achieved, what was the outcome, how was it achieved
		3. Include metrics from before and after the project, including sigma levels
		4. Make it visual: Project in scope (check), Project on Time? (check), Project Success (check)
6. Close project
	1. To close out your project, you need to have one final tollgate meeting to ensure all aspects of the control phase have been completed
	2. This meeting will also be different in some senses, as you now need to round off the project. To do this:
		1. Hold a meeting which is attended by all project members
		2. Tick off that all control tasks have been completed
		3. Ensure that all project documentation is up to date and is place in the appropriate folders. If not, give this an owner to complete quickly
		4. Ensure the new process map, any updated work instructions or new policy documentation have been shared with the correct stakeholders. You do not want people complaining post projects about not knowing of the changes. This can tarnish a project well done. 
		5. Schedule a lessons learned meeting, or discuss them within this meeting. Review what went right about the project and what did not go so well and discuss how you would mitigate the bad points going forward.
		6. Review the benefits realization. Agree on this and have this sent out to all relevant parties, and agree where else this should be posted. It needs to grab attention and be seen. 
		7. Discuss further recommendations if there are any and how these are going to be handed over to the next team. 
		8. Thank the team and send a wider thanks to all those involved
	3. At this state you can officially close your project and celebrate a job well done :) 


## Conclusion

Overall, the DMAIC methodology provides a structured approach to problem-solving that can be applied to a wide range of processes and industries. By using the tools and techniques at each stage, the project team can identify the root cause of the problem and develop solutions to address it, leading to improved efficiency, quality, and customer satisfaction.

